{:title "About Scicloj"
 :layout :post
 :toc true
 :tags  ["data science" "scicloj"]}

## What

**Scicloj** is an open, free and dynamic hub aimed at advancing doing **data science**, **machine learning** and **numerical computing** in Clojure. There are various places where activities move forward (for more info check the [Links](#Links) section) and everyone of them is open to discussion and contribution.

## Who

We are Clojurians coming from very different backgrounds and with very different levels of knowledge around Clojure and data science who share a common goal: making Clojure and data science better by combining them. 

There isn't a board, a council or something along these lines. Everyone is welcome to contribute, to consume and to use **Scicloj** however they like.

## Why

A few people met on the internet one day and they all shared the same thought: Clojure is great, data science is cool, let's put them together to make a crying rainbow of awesomeness! The first issues encountered led to a couple of revelations: Clojure is indeed cool, but data science relies heavily on FOSS libraries and tools that in Clojureland are all scattered around and usually poorly documented. 

**Scicloj** is an umbrella for libraries, tutorials, ideas and open discussion trying to move further the idea that not only data science is possible with Clojure, but it can be a very nice experience as well (and it just works!).

## How

**Scicloj** tries to create broad discussions, where community members can reason together about their common goals. 

At the same time, it maintains dedicated task groups that can have discussion around certain topics, such as: machine learning, wrapping useful data science libraries for use with Clojure, writing tutorials, organizing the community, editing the **Scicloj** website, and more.

In addition to textual, everyday discussions,  **Scicloj** encourages meetings in small groups, as well as larger gatherings. As we are spread over different countries, so far these have been video meetings. Probably, we will organize some physical meetings, too.

## Future

If you are a fellow data scientist you surely agree with the fact that predicting the future is hard. **Scicloj** main goals at the moment are:

- Build a website for the community
- Write tutorials about data science with Clojure
- Contribute to the development of a few libraries
- Organize and host [web meetings](https://zoom.us/meeting/register/92f7c2a1357c7ad2c5b9141539e44ee6) about the state of the art
- Spread the word as much as possible about Clojure and **Scicloj** itself

> This section will be updated periodically.

## Links

- [GitHub](https://github.com/scicloj)
- [Zulip](https://clojurians.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/151924-data-science)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/scicloj)
